# CS-340-X2142-Client-Server-Development
Final Project

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

- I wrote programs that were maintainable, readable, and adaptable, considering my work with CRUD was by using basic logic but still understanding exactly what the codes are doing to include inputs, outputs, and algorithms. Being sure that I commented my codes for everyone to understand what it is that the code was doing as well. I tried to use good variables and stayed consistent with indentation, seeing that Python is very picky. Lastly, I used consistent naming schemes because when I needed to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two, it worked appropriately.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

- I approach a problem as a computer scientist by first being unbiased and trying to understand the problem I am trying to solve. This way, knowing exactly what the problem is, is important to solving the problem. Then, design a solution for the problem, try implementing it, and check the solution. When I approached the dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested, I made a software design template and figured out what their needs were and how I would make sure I implement everything they asked for to the best of my abilities. Honestly, my approach to this project and all the assignments in other courses I have taken were the same. After learning how to make such a report in my Operating Platforms course, it made my life much easier by knowing how to understand what a client is asking for me truly. From then on, I knew that I would use this strategy in the future to meet the client's needs.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

- Computer Scientists use technology to solve problems and prepare for future technologies. We write programs to develop all kinds of applications such as web browsers, database software, graphics software, etc. but most importantly, validate the interaction between persons and their computers, software, and devices. Doing so matters because our lives are built around computers. Therefore, keeping us all connected, build our economics, making businesses flow smoother, and create new jobs. That is why, as computer use grows, computer scientist technological skills are imperative. My work on this type of project helps a company, like Grazioso Salvare to do their work by having a database that allows them to continuously work with their data, whether it be to create a new object, read an object, update or even delete and object, whilst being able to have visualizes of how their data impacts their entire business.
